The internet is essentially a long piece of wire that connects a lot of
different computers from around the world to each other. There can be, for
example, one computer in Seattle, US and another computer in London, England.
These two computers can talk to each other and transfer data though this long
wire.

Some of these computers that are attached to internet have a very
special/particular job. They have to be online 24 hours a day, 7 days a week,
ready to serve people the data and files that they are requesting when we access
 websites. The computers that are doing this job are called a "Server" (or
"Servers" if more than 1).
Any computer that accesses the internet is known as a "Client".

A "Web Server" can be thought of a library that's open 24/7 and we can access
it at any time we want or need and request to see any website or page that is
available. This "Web Server" (or library) will be able to serve us (the "Client")
with all the files and data that we would need to be able to view whatever
website that we requested.

If there is a library that is big enough to house all these websites, then it's
going to be difficult to quickly locate the one website that we requested out of
this giant library.


How This is Solved on the internet:
When we want to go to a particular website, we type the web address of that
website into a web browser on a computer (the "Client"), and then, behind the
scenes, our web browser will send a message to our Internet Service Provider (ISP)
(the company that we pay to let us access the internet).

The message that the browser is sending the ISP is:- "I want to see {website name}".
The ISP will then relay that message to something called a "DNS Server" (Domain
Names Systems Server"). A DNS Server is a like a huge version of a phone address
book but for websites.

When a DNS Server gets a request for a website, the DNS Server will look up, in
its database, as to what is the exact IP address of that website we're trying to
access. Every single computer that is connected to the internet has an IP address.

A IP address is like a postal address for a computer.
When people need to send and receive data or files on the internet, each computer
can be located by their unique IP address.

When the DNS Server finds the IP address of the website we want, it sends it
back via our ISP to our web browser. A this point, our browser will know the
exact address of the website we want to access.

The next thing that happens is that our browser sends a direct request to that
address through our ISP. The ISP will deliver this message via what is called
the "Internet Backbone". The "Internet Backbone" is the literal backbone of the
internet. See https://www.submarinecablemap.com/#/ to view all the underwater
cables that power the internet. The internet is made up of huge sprawling masses
of wires that connect the worlds internet users.

To clarify, we put a web address into our browser, the browser sends a request
this web address via our Internet Service Provider to a DNS Server, which responds
by sending back the exact IP address of the server that contains the website we
want via our ISP to our browser. Our browser then sends a direct request via our
ISP through to the Internet Backbone all the way to the Server that houses the
website we want to access. The Server then sends the files and data related to
the website we want to view back to us through the Internet Backbone via the ISP.

Process of how we gain access to a website:

Client --> ISP --> DNS Server -->
                                 |
Client <-- ISP <-- DNS Server <--
   |
    --> ISP --> Internet Backbone --> IP address of the Server containing the
                                      website we want to view
                                            |
Client <-- ISP <-- Internet Backbone <-------

The entire process takes place within a few milliseconds.
