How Do Websites Work

What does HTML, CSS and JavaScript do exactly?


In order to access a webpage, we need a browser (eg. Google Chrome, Safari, Firefox).
These are pieces of software that allow us to look up the IP addresses of websites
and be able to receive data that it can render into actual webpages and websites.

The data that we receive consist mainly of 3 types of files;- HTML, CSS, JavaScript.

The purpose of each file type:

HTML - Responsible for the structure of a website. If a website was a house,
       HTML would be the builder who would build the walls, stairs, put in the
       windows, the doors, the shower, bath, toilet and sinks (building the
       general structure of the house).
       HTML is the same for websites. HTML can be used to add an image, a button,
       or textbox, for example, or anything else we may need inside a website.

CSS -  Responsible for the styling of a website. Going with the "website is a house"
       theme, CSS would be the painters and decorators that would paint the walls
       and adding stylistic flourishes, and generally making the place look the
       way we want it to.
       CSS specifies how a website should look. For example, a button (which was
       added by the HTML) will need CSS to give it a colour and a font.

JavaScript - Responsible for the behaviour and functionality. If a website
             was a house, JavaScript would be the tradesmen/women that got things
             working, eg. an electrician doing up the electrical wiring so that
             lightbulbs, plug sockets and such worked properly or a plumber doing
             the plumbing so that the toilets flushed and taps/faucets for the
             sinks and shower/bath worked.
             JavaScript allows a website to do things and have behaviour.

HTML puts things onto a webpage, CSS makes those things look a certain way and
puts them in a certain place on the page, and JavaScript gives everything a job
and makes them behave a certain way.
