API Authentication and Why Do We Need to Authenticate Ourselves

Some APIs provide some simple data and are free to use without any cost. Nobody is
going to use these APIs in an any big or fancy commercialised software.

Some other APIs provide valuable data (eg. weather data). This sort of data is very
valuable because it takes a lot of time, effort and resources for people/companies
to provide all of this data to people to use. In these cases, APIs can have 1 or,
usually, multiple paid tiers. These API providers that charge for their APIs, do so
because gain all the data for their APIs require workers (who work for wages) to
collect the data with equipment (that the API provider pays/paid for) at the
companies place of work (which costs the company money to maintain and upkeep (for
utility bills, maintenance costs, taxes and other costs)).

OpenWeatherMap for example. They have access to over 4000 weather stations across
the globe which uses equipment to gather weather data. Then their data scientists
take that weather data and look at satellite images and process all of the gathered
data to figure out the weather and make predictions for the weather for each city
in the world. All of this is quite resource intensive and requires a lot of
employees, server/equipment maintenance and electricity costs. For all the work that
goes into collecting all of this weather data, it would be reasonable for them to
charge money for the data they provide.

Essentially, we see a lot of APIs as a way of selling data. If someone owns a
privileged piece of data that is constantly being updated or is actively generating,
weather data or financial data for example, then it's reasonable that they should
charging money or this data, especially if someone is going to rely on it in order
to build an app or company.

Luckily, most of the API providers with paid tiers also have a free tier which
allows us to test an application. This is great for people who are learning how
to use APIs because API providers know it only makes sense to charge people or
companies that have a lot of users.

Also, these API provider have to prevent people from abusing their free tier. They
have to consider this because pretty much anyone can claim that they are learning.
The way that API providers prevent people from abusing their service is through
something called an API Key. An API Key acts as a persons/companies personal
account number and password. This is how an API provide can track how much someone
is using their API and authorize access and also deny access when someone reaches
their usage limit.

API providers can have different ways for people to authenticate themselves with
them, but most will involve some sort of API Key.


