Understanding Typography and How to Choose Fonts

Choosing the Correct Fonts
It's important to pick the proper fonts when designing a website. Choosing 
the proper fonts will be determined by the mood of each website, the 
target audience and, possibly, feedback.


Out of all the fonts that exist, there are two large font families:

1. Serif
    Characters of a Serif font have little feet at the end of their 
    central beams. They have these little feet because the Serif typeface 
    was inspired by the marble carvings of 'Days of Yore'(??). 

2. Sans-Serif
    Characters in Sans-Serif fonts don't have the little feet that Serif
    fonts have, Sans-Serif fonts have perfect right angles. 
    The Sans-Serif typeface is considered to have highly readable fonts, 
    though some are more readable and eligible than others. Sans-Serif
    fonts are typically used in bodies of text for readability.



The Emotion/Mood Behind Fonts

Serif - Traditional (eg. Minion Pro), 
        Stable (eg. Trajan), 
        Respectable (eg. Baskerville)

Sans-Serif - Sensible (eg. Helvetica),
             Simople (eg. Avenir),
             Straightforward (eg. Din)

Script - Personal (eg. Freestyle Script),
         Creative (eg. Adias Script Pro),
         Elegant (eg. Snell Roundhand)

Display - Friendly (eg. Vag Rounded),
          Loud (eg. Gin),
          Amusing (eg. Thirsty Rough)

Modern - STYLISH (eg. Sackers Gothic), 
         CHIC (eg. Gaotham),
         SMART (eg. Futura)


Combining Fonts
When considering fonts to combine, it is recommended to keep it to around 
2 fonts that should be similar in mood and time era (for example, 
combining a modern looking font with an older font would look a bit 
strange).
The contrast between fonts is another thing to consider. A heading should 
be a Serif font and the accompanying body of text should be a Sans-Serif 
font or visa-versa. Also for contrast, the weights of the heading and body
texts. The font of the heading should be of a bigger weight, or more bold,
where as the font in the body should be of a lesser weight, or thinner 
text.