Understanding Colour Theoery

Colour theory is the art and science of creating the right colour pallet for a website.

When picking colours for a website, we have to be aware of the mood of the 
colour pallet. The predominant colour that is in our design really tells a story and it conveys a message to the user.

Mood:
-- Red - Love, energy, intensity.
        For example, there are a lot of car adverts containing the colour red (e.g. a red car, a red background). The adverts are trying to
        say "Hey, buy this car. It will make you energetic."

-- Yellow - Joy, intellect, attention.
        Yellow seems to be a very attention grabbing colour, which can be
        great for a logo or headline, if done properly. But, if we are 
        creating something that is designed to be looked at for a long 
        period of time, then yellow might be too much when it comes to
        getting attention. The yellow may hurt a users eyes or put them of
        whatever they are looking at (e.g. an article or a poster advert).

-- Green - Freshness, safety, growth
        For example, grocery or food companies may use green as the 
        predominant colour in there pallet because they want their 
        customers to link their food with freshness and/or health.

-- Blue - Stability, trust, serenity
        Blue can be used by companies that want to convey that they are
        trustworthy. For example, financial companies may choose the 
        colour blue to let their customers know that they're not going to
        run off with the customers money. 

-- Purple - Royalty, wealth, femininity
        For example, (apparently) a lot of 'payday' loan companies
        seemingly choose purple as their predominant colour, especially 
        the 'payday' loan companies that market themselves towards women.


The important thing to think about is that we are making a conscience 
decision when choosing a colour pallete. It's not just whatever colours we
like or our favourite colours. It's actually what message we are trying to 
convey to the user and picking an appropriate colour(s). 



Combining Colours

Usually, we won't be using a sinble colour for a design. We'll be using 2 
or 3. This means we will have to think about what colours to combine. This 
probably the most scientific part about Colour Theory. 

Often, designers will rely on scientific ways of combining colours. 

Analolous Colours
For example, taking two colours that are right next to each other on a 
colour wheel. This way we are creating what known as an Analolous Colour 
Pallet. Designs that have this are considered harmonious and the colours 
work really well together. 
This type of colour pallet is good for navigation bars, the body of a 
website, and a logo and its background. 
What this sort of colour pallet is not good at is standing out (because 
each colour on the colour wheel looks similar to the colour next to it). 

Complementary Colours
To create a colour pallet that will stand out can create what is known as 
a Complimentary Colour Pallet (or a Clashing Pallet). This is where we can 
take 2 colours from opposite side of the colour wheel. 
The purpose of this type of colour pallet is to take 2 (or more) colours 
opposite sides of the colour wheel, which makes these colours drastically 
different from each other, and to pair them up to make them stand out. 
For example, supermarkets pairing red meat with green fake 'bushes/grass' 
to make the meat stand out. E
It's ok to do this to pair 2 different colours in logos/icons or different 
coloured item, but not so much when it comes to coloured text on an 
opposite coloured background. 
Applying a Complimentary Colour Pallet to a coloured text on a opposite 
coloured background would be quite jarring and would hurt the eyes to 
look at. For text/background colour pallet, it would be better to use a
Alalolous Colour Pallet.
For example, dark green on a red background is a bad combination, while 
white text on a somewhat brightish green is a good combination.

Other Types of Combinations
There are other types of colour pallets that we can create. For example,
the Triadic Colour Pallet - drawing a equalateral triangle inside the 
colour wheel and using the colours at the 3 points as the colour pallet.

Go to 'https://color.adobe.com/create/color-wheel' for more combinations 
and to play around with a colour wheel.
Or go to 'https://colorhunt.co/' for hand picked colour pallets.