Manage ATTENTION with Effective User Interface (UI) Design

1. Heirarchy
    Ways of conveying information. In other words, displaying information 
    in such a way that each bit of information draws the eyes in a certain 
    order or heirarchy. For instance, displaying the most important 
    information in a large bold font, displaying a slightly less important 
    information in a smaller and less noticable font and displaying the 
    least important information in a small lettering. 

    For example, a birthday invite:

    (Small font, least important info)
    "Dear Jane, you are invited to

    (Largest font, most important info, what the user should look at first)
    John's 21st Birthday Party

    (Small font, least important info)
    Come eat, drink and be merry with john as he turn the big two-one!

    (Medium font)
    Saturday, May 19th 7:00PM - 12:00AM
    
    (Small font, least important info)
    12 Street Road, Suburb Town

    (Medium font)
    RSVP by May 5th"



Establishing Heirarchy 

Heirarchy can be established in a number of ways. 

1. Using Colour (this is the most obvious)
    Colours that stand out and have contrast with their background tend to
    be used for high heirarchy. Giving certain aspects to a website a 
    colour that stands out will get a lot of notice from users.
    For example, an online store having a white and grey background 
    throughout the website that uses a green button to tell users to 'add 
    the item that they're viewing to their basket'. 

2. Size
    Aspects of a bigger size tend to be looked at first, while the smaller 
    items either get less notice or get looked at last (and then all the 
    other sized aspects in between).

3. Layout
    We could, if we wanted to, choose layout the entire webpage as one big 
    block of text and images. Or, we can choose to layout a webpage in a 
    more interesting manner that has blocks of text or images brocken up 
    into different sections. 
    For example, Wikipedia is considered to have a bad layout, while 
    Grammerly is considered to have a good layout. 

4. Alignment
    This is to do how everything is positioned on the webpage relative to 
    each other. For example, if a header is center aligned and the 
    accompanying body of text is left aligned, then it would seem like a 
    bad fit. Otherwise, if the header and body of text were left aligned, 
    for example, then it would seem that they are a good match, and it 
    looks more consistant and more well designed. 
    One of the easiest ways to make any sort of design we make look more 
    professional is to reduce the number of alignment points.

5. White Space
    White space refers to the empty space around text and elements of the 
    webpage. Having space around text, images and other elements will make 
    a website much more nicer, muche more easier to read, and more 
    professional. A website that lacks any or much whitspace makes it look 
    like a crampt discount store.

6. Audience
    Arguably the most important thing about design - design for you 
    audience. Think about what would appeal to them and what's important 
    to convey to them. 