User Experience (UX) Design


User experience is meant ton be invisible. If you have a good experience 
with a website, it's meant to be unobtrusive, it just lets you do your 
thing and it makes it feel as if everything is easy and effertless.

In order to give users a good experience, we have to think five things:

1. Simplicity
    Keeping things simple is always better than making things more complex 
    or more cluttered.

2. Consistency
    It's a good idea to make designs as well as the fuctionality for the 
    product(s) constistent. For example, if a website will have the same 
    sort of elements troughout the website (e.g. a navigation bar), it 
    would be consistent to have that element on each page look the same, 
    and have the same functionality. 

3. Reading Patterns
    Taking into account peoples reading patterns (how people read). 
    One of the most common reading patterns is called the 'F pattern'. 
    With the F-patter, people start reading a block of text from the top 
    left (what is considered the start of the first line), then read 
    across that line to the right, then after finishing that line going to 
    left (or start) of the next line. Then it's a case of repeating until 
    everything has been read.
    Another reading pattern is known as the 'Z-pattern' (or Z-layout). In 
    this case, the eyes move across the web page in a zigzag (or Z) 
    pattern. The z-pattern is good for certain types of websites (e.g. 
    sites that are sparse, have a lot of video content or if users are 
    trying to browse a website a little bit faster). Face book uses this 
    type of layout.

4. All Platform Design
    In todays age, more and more people are using mobile phones and 
    tabletS, as well as desk top computer and laptops, to browse the web. 
    It's a good idea to make websites responsive (how the site adapts 
    its' layout to fit a computing devices screen). Alternatively, make a 
    site for desktop or laptop use and make a dedicated mobile-friendly 
    site.

5. Don't Use Your Powers for Evil
    
    Some designers and companies like to use UI/UX designs to do bad 
    things. This is known as 'dark patterns'. 
    These are patterns that are beneficial to the company or designer, 
    but also, not necessarily what the user wants. It can argued that 
    these patterns are a form of trickery. This is considered as a bad 
    user experience. 
    Examples:
    - Amazon using the colour orange to point out the 'Checkout with 
      Express Delivery' button next to a grey 'Checkout with 
      Normal Delivery' button (tricking customers to spend more money on 
      delivery)

    - A designer placing a curved 1 pixel line on a Snapchat ad. Snapchat 
      user may mistke the line as a hair, which users would want to get 
      rid of and accidentally press on the ad (press, not click, since 
      Snapchat is a mobile app) causing to go to website of whatever is 
      being advertised. This is likely the designers intention since 
      advertiser get paid per click. 

    - An airline company selling travel insurance during the sale of each 
      aiplane tickets and hiding the 'No Travel Insurance' option in a 
      drop-down box (which is listed alphabetically with a bunch of 
      actual insurance options). This is probably to make the 'No 
      Insurance' option difficult to find (so that the airline company can make more money on unwanted insurance).

    - Companies that use check boxs with text that is worded in confusing 
      manner, which makes it unclear as to what users are signing up for.
      Example:
      "If you would like us to no longer continue to stop not sending you 
      special deals and offrs every week, please indicate you are 
      inclined to yes by not checking the box."






















































